HeidCAM --- Heidenhain NC program test and debug software for Linux;

---------

CAD and CAM software for Linux is in short supply. For this reason Linux is not
suitable for engineers. There is my little effort to overcome this fallback. 

Having NC-program in Klartext notation you can build 3D model of part and view
and measure it on screen. 

HeidCAM is CAM software for Linux based on Qt and OpenCASCADE. With HeidCAM you
can build 3D model on PC having NC-program for straight-cut Heidenhain
TNC-controls for milling machines such as TNC-124, TNC-128, TNC-135 and
similar. With HeidCAM you can test NC-programm on PC. HeidCAM is equivalent of
programming station for such TNC-controls. The difference from Heidenhain
programming station is that you can interactively rotate, pan, zoom 3D part on
screen. You can interactively measure distances from the one part surface to
another. With Heidenhain programming stations you cannot perform such actions.
This advantage is achieved due to that TNC-control interface is not emulated on
PC and HeidCAM uses its own interface.


You can debug NC-programm without physical TNC control. HeidCAM can be used for
educational purposes. 

HeidCAM advantages:
- interactive NC-program editing
- interactive part pan, zoom and rotation
- measurement tool
- cylindrical bulk forms
- Linux full compatible
- Russian interface as option

Need to work:
- Milling time calculation
- Part weight calculation
- TNC-cycles and Q-parameters support
- STEP/IGES export


You can use HeidCAM sources free for non-commercial usage. For commercial usage
please contact with me.

---

Vadim Kusnetsov
ra3xdh@gmail.com

Программа предназначена для построения на персональном компьютере трёхмерной
твёрдотельной модели детали, изготавливаемой по программам для стоек ЧПУ
Heidenhain (для фрезерного станка) с позиционным управлением. В отличие от
программных станций возможен интерактивный просмотр детали и измерение размеров.
Программа основана на трёхмерном твёрдотельном движке openCASCADE и библиотеке
Qt с открытым исходным кодом.  

По своей сути программа является программной станцией, но свободна от
ограничений, накладываемых необходимостью симулировать в программной станции
стойку ЧПУ целиком. Программа имеет интерфейс, привычный для пользователя ПК.

Программу можно применять для ознакомления пользователей со стойками ЧПУ
Heidenhain, для обучения, для оптимизации NC-программы без станка, имея в
распоряжении только персональный компьютер.

Преимущества:
 Интерактивная разработка NC-программы.
 Интерактивный поворот, масштабирование, перемещение детали.
 Измерение размеров.
 Работа с цилиндрическим заготовками.
 Полная совместимость с ОС Linux.
 Интерфейс на русском языке

Нужно ещё реализовать:
Расчёт времени обработки
Расчёт МЦХ детали
Поддержка циклов и Q-парамтров. 
Экспорт в STEP/IGES пока полностью не реализован.

Свободно для некоммерческого использования. По вопросом коммерческого
использования связаться со мной.

---
С наилучшими пожеланиями,
Кузнецов Вадим Вадимович.
ra3xdh@gmail.com



